.. _rabbitconfig:

=============================
Configuring Flux with Rabbits
=============================

In order for a Flux system instance to be able to allocate
rabbit storage, the ``dws_jobtap.so`` plugin must be loaded.
The plugin can be loaded in a config file like so:

.. code-block::

    [job-manager]
    plugins = [
      { load = "dws-jobtap.so" }
    ]

Also, the ``flux-coral2-dws`` systemd service must be started
on the same node as the rank 0 broker of the system instance
(i.e. the management node). The ``flux`` user must have
a kubeconfig file in its home directory granting it read
and write access to, at a minimum, ``Storages``, ``Workflows``,
``Servers``, and ``Computes`` resources (all of which are defined by
dataworkflowservices). There are instructions for how to grant Flux
the minimum permissions necessary by setting up role-based access control
`here <https://nearnodeflash.github.io/latest/guides/rbac-for-users/readme/#rbac-for-workload-manager-wlm>`__.

Lastly, the Fluxion scheduler must be configured to recognize rabbit
resources. This can be done by generating a file describing the rabbit layout
for the cluster and then running ``flux dws2jgf`` like so:

.. code-block:: bash

    flux rabbitmapping > /tmp/rabbitmapping.json
    flux dws2jgf [--no-validate] --from-config /etc/flux/system/conf.d/resource.toml --only-sched /tmp/rabbitmapping.json

The output (which may be large) must be saved to a file and pointed to with the
``resource.scheduling`` config key (see
`here <https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io/projects/flux-core/en/latest/man5/flux-config-resource.html#keys>`__).

In order to facilitate Fluxion restart when using this new JGF
(as it is called), Fluxion must be configured to use a ``match-format``
of ``rv1`` instead of the otherwise recommended default of ``rv1_nosched``.

For example, in a config file:

.. code-block:: toml

    [sched-fluxion-resource]
    match-format = "rv1"

Rabbit Config Options
---------------------

The ``rabbit`` config table captures site-general policies and options for
Flux's interactions with the rabbits.


**mapping** (string)
  (required) Path to rabbitmapping file for the cluster, as generated by
  `flux rabbitmapping`.

**kubeconfig** (string)
  (optional) Path to kubeconfig file for Flux to use, ideally with restricted permissions.
  This can be left undefined if the file is placed at the path `~flux/.kube/config`
  (assuming the `flux` user is the instance owner).

**tc_timeout** (integer)
  (optonal) Time in seconds to tolerate a workflow stuck in TransientCondition state
  before killing the associated job. Defaults to 10 seconds.

**drain_compute_nodes** (boolean)
  (optional) Whether to automatically drain compute nodes that lose PCIe connection
  with their rabbit. Defaults to true.

**save_datamovements** (integer)
  (optional) Number of `nnfdatamovement` resources to save to jobs' KVS, may be useful for
  debugging but too many may degrade performance. Defaults to 0.

**restrict_persistent_creation** (boolean)
  (optional) Restrict the creation of persistent file systems to the instance owner
  (in most cases the `flux` user).

**policy.maximums** (table)
  (optional) The maximum filesystem capacity per node, in GiB, that users may
  request. Leave undefined for no limit. See below for an example.

**presets** (table)
  (optional) Defines preset #DW strings. May potentially save users time and energy,
  allowing them to run, for instance, `flux alloc -N1 -S dw=NAME` rather than
  `flux alloc -N1 -S "dw=#DW jobdw ..."` See below for an example.


Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: TOML

    [rabbit]

    kubeconfig = "/var/flux/.kube/config"
    tc_timeout = 600
    drain_compute_nodes = true
    save_datamovements = 5
    restrict_persistent_creation = true

    # maximum filesystem capacity per node, in GiB
    [rabbit.policy.maximums]
    xfs = 1024
    gfs2 = 2048
    raw = 4096
    lustre = 1024

    # defines preset #DW strings
    [rabbit.presets]

    small_xfs = "#DW jobdw type=xfs capacity=100GiB name=smallxfs"
    large_lustre = "#DW jobdw type=lustre capacity=50TiB name=largelustre"
